= On-Lattice Agent-based Simulation of Populations of Cells within the Open-Source Chaste Framework" =

This section contains pages generated automatically from the source code accompanying 
Figueredo et al (2013) "On-Lattice Agent-based Simulation of Populations of Cells within the Open-Source Chaste Framework", Royal Society Interface Focus. 
doi:  10.1098/rsfs.2012.0081

The code to run single simulations, which was used to produce the figures in the paper, can be found here [wiki:PaperTutorials/InterfaceFocus2013/CompareOwen2011OxygenBasedCellCycleModelsWithAndWithoutOde TestCompareOwen2011OxygenBasedCellCycleModelsWithAndWithoutOde.hpp]

Before looking at this, you may wish to look at some of the [wiki:UserTutorials basic user tutorials] for Chaste.


== Getting the code and installing dependencies ==

Before running these examples you will need to [wiki:InstallGuides/InstallGuide install Chaste's dependencies] and the [http://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/chaste/download.html source code for version 3.2].
The easiest way to do this is using an Ubuntu machine (or an Ubuntu virtual machine) as discussed on [wiki:InstallGuides/UbuntuPackage]. 
Note that Chaste is only fully supported on !Linux/Unix systems, so users of Windows or Mac OS X may need to follow the virtual machine route.
For manual installation of each dependency, on any version of Linux, see DeveloperInstallGuide.

You will also need the source for the InterfaceFocus2013 project.  This can be done by checking out the version from the repository by using the command 
{{{
svn checkout https://chaste.cs.ox.ac.uk/svn/chaste/projects/InterfaceFocus2013
}}}
in the projects folder of the Chaste directory. You will need to use the supplied username and password.

Now the project should be installed, and everything should compile and run correctly. 
You can now run the tests or simulations, or create your own test suites.

== Documentation ==
There are two folders - `src` and `test`.
 1. The `src` folder contains the classes necesary to run the simulation. These define the aditional forces and boundary conditions not in the core chaste code.
 1. The `test` folder contains:
  * [wiki:PaperTutorials/InterfaceFocus2013/CompareOwen2011OxygenBasedCellCycleModelsWithAndWithoutOde TestCompareOwen2011OxygenBasedCellCycleModelsWithAndWithoutOde.hpp] - this file can be run to generate the results in the paper.
 == Running tests ==
You can then run tests and simulations with,
{{{
cd <Chaste3.2 path>
scons b=GccOpt ts=projects/InterfaceFocus2013/test/TestCompareOwen2011OxygenBasedCellCycleModelsWithAndWithoutOdeLiteratePaper.hpp
}}}
----
'''NB''': the paper was developed with release version 3.2. It will not work with with release version 3.1 or under.

For further information on using Chaste, see the [wiki:ChasteGuides extensive guide material].
You may also wish to look at some of the [wiki:UserTutorials basic user tutorials].